docs/install.md, before:

# Installation

If you'd like to install CDash in a [Docker](https://www.docker.com) container, please see our
[Docker installation guide](docker.md).

## Prerequisite software

Before installing CDash, you will need:

- A web server: [Apache](https://httpd.apache.org) or [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com)
- A database: [MySQL v5.x+](https://www.mysql.com) or [PostgreSQL v9.2+](https://www.postgresql.org)
- [PHP 7.2 - 7.4](https://www.php.net)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org) (to install PHP dependencies)
- [npm v6](https://www.npmjs.com/) (to install Javascript dependencies)

## PHP modules

CDash needs the following PHP modules installed and enabled.

- bcmath
- php_curl
- gd
- json
- mbstring
- pdo_mysql or pdo_pgsql
- bz2
- xsl

## Web server configuration

CDash is built on top of the [Laravel framework](https://laravel.com).

Laravel's routing system requires your web server to have the `mod_rewrite` module enabled.

It also requires your web server to honor .htaccess files `(AllowOverride All)`.

See [Laravel documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/6.x/installation#pretty-urls) for more information.

## Download CDash

If you haven't already done so, [download CDash from GitHub](https://github.com/Kitware/CDash/releases) or clone it using git.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Kitware/CDash
```

## Expose CDash to the web

Only CDash's `public` subdirectory  should be served to the web.

The easiest way to achieve this is to create a symbolic link in your DocumentRoot
(typically `/var/www`) that points to `/path/to/CDash/public`.

## Adjust filesystem permissions

The user that your web server is running under will need write access to the CDash directory.
In the following example, we assume your web server is run by the `www-data` user.

```bash
# Modify CDash directory to belong to the www-data group
chgrp -R www-data /path/to/CDash

# Make the CDash directory writeable by group.
chmod -R g+rw /path/to/CDash
```

## Install/upgrade steps

Perform the follow steps when you initially install CDash and upon each subsequent upgrade.

```bash
# Install PHP and JavaScript dependencies
composer install --no-dev --prefer-dist
npm install
```

## Install steps: initial installation only

The following steps only need to be completed the first time you setup CDash.

```bash
# Setup default configuration
cp .env.example .env

# Generate application key
php artisan key:generate
```

## Configure CDash and generate build files

If you are upgrading an existing CDash instance, run the following command to migrate
your config settings into the .env file:

```bash
php artisan config:migrate
```

Otherwise, edit `.env` and set configuration variables as necessary.
In particular, you will want to set the following values:
* The `DB_*` variables indicate how to connect to the database
* `APP_URL` should be set to the root URL of CDash (ie `https://localhost/CDash`)

In most other cases, reasonable default values apply if the variables are not explicitly set.

Once you're happy with your config settings, run `npm` to generate CDash's frontend.

```bash
# Generate build files
npm run dev
```

## Finish CDash installation

Open up your new CDash instance in a web browser and fill out the installation form.

Once that is complete you can create a project and start submitting builds to it.

Commit message:

Improve install documentation
Some pages (notably install.php) still require database credentials
to be recorded in `config.local.php`. So for now, instruct users
to specify their config settings there and then run `artisan config:migrate`
to keep Laravel happy.

Also more explicitly call out the role of install.php.

docs/install.md, after:

# Installation

If you'd like to install CDash in a [Docker](https://www.docker.com) container, please see our
[Docker installation guide](docker.md).

## Prerequisite software

Before installing CDash, you will need:

- A web server: [Apache](https://httpd.apache.org) or [NGINX](https://www.nginx.com)
- A database: [MySQL v5.x+](https://www.mysql.com) or [PostgreSQL v9.2+](https://www.postgresql.org)
- [PHP 7.2 - 7.4](https://www.php.net)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org) (to install PHP dependencies)
- [npm v6](https://www.npmjs.com/) (to install Javascript dependencies)

## PHP modules

CDash needs the following PHP modules installed and enabled.

- bcmath
- php_curl
- gd
- json
- mbstring
- pdo_mysql or pdo_pgsql
- bz2
- xsl

## Web server configuration

CDash is built on top of the [Laravel framework](https://laravel.com).

Laravel's routing system requires your web server to have the `mod_rewrite` module enabled.

It also requires your web server to honor .htaccess files `(AllowOverride All)`.

See [Laravel documentation](https://laravel.com/docs/6.x/installation#pretty-urls) for more information.

## Download CDash

If you haven't already done so, [download CDash from GitHub](https://github.com/Kitware/CDash/releases) or clone it using git.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Kitware/CDash
```

## Expose CDash to the web

Only CDash's `public` subdirectory  should be served to the web.

The easiest way to achieve this is to create a symbolic link in your DocumentRoot
(typically `/var/www`) that points to `/path/to/CDash/public`.

## Adjust filesystem permissions

The user that your web server is running under will need write access to the CDash directory.
In the following example, we assume your web server is run by the `www-data` user.

```bash
# Modify CDash directory to belong to the www-data group
chgrp -R www-data /path/to/CDash

# Make the CDash directory writeable by group.
chmod -R g+rw /path/to/CDash
```

## Install/upgrade steps

Perform the follow steps when you initially install CDash and upon each subsequent upgrade.

```bash
# Install PHP and JavaScript dependencies
composer install --no-dev --prefer-dist
npm install
```

## Configure CDash and generate build files

If you don't already have a `.env` file in the root of your CDash tree, start with
one based on the default configuration, and set your application key.

```bash
cp .env.example .env
php artisan key:generate
```

Next, if you haven't already done so, create the file `app/cdash/config/config.local.php`
and populate it with any non-default settings you require. The most important values
to set here are:

* The `$CDASH_DB_*` variables. These indicate how to connect to the database.
* `$CDASH_BASE_URL` should be set to the root URL of CDash (ie `https://localhost/CDash`)

In most other cases, reasonable default values apply if the variables are not explicitly set.

Once you're happy with the contents of `config.local.php`, run the following command to migrate
your config settings into the `.env` file used by Laravel.

```bash
php artisan config:migrate
```

At this point, make sure your `.env` file has a `APP_URL` entry, and that the following line
appears somewhere further down in the file:
```
MIX_APP_URL="${APP_URL}"
```

Once you're happy with your config settings, run `npm` to generate CDash's frontend.

```bash
# Generate build files
npm run dev
```

## Finish CDash installation

Open up your new CDash instance in a web browser. You should be automatically
redirected to `install.php`. Fill out the installation form to create the
database tables and the initial admin user.

Once that is complete you can create a project and start submitting builds to it.
